# Diebetes-Detection
 Regression Analysis Project
 Author: M.Sharif Ashna

 Nearly half a billion people worldwide live with diabetes, and nearly 80% of those live in low- and middle-income countries. Nine in ten people with diabetes have Type 2 diabetes, which is increasing fastest in low- and middle-income countries. Diabetes increases the risk of early death, and diabetes-related complications can lower quality of life. The high global burden of diabetes has a negative economic impact on individuals, health care systems, and nations.

Complications like heart disease, vision loss, lower-limb amputation, and kidney disease are associated with chronically high levels of sugar remaining in the bloodstream for those with diabetes. While there is no cure for diabetes, strategies like losing weight, eating healthily, being active, and receiving medical treatments can mitigate the harms of this disease in many patients. Early diagnosis can lead to lifestyle changes and more effective treatment, making predictive models for diabetes risk important tools for public and public health officials. The scale of this problem is also important to recognize. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has indicated that as of 2018, 34.2 million Americans have diabetes and 88 million have prediabetes. Furthermore, the CDC estimates that 1 in 5 diabetics, and roughly 8 in 10 pre diabetics are unaware of their risk. While there are different types of diabetes, type II diabetes is the most common form and its prevalence varies by age, education, income, location, race, and other social determinants of health. Much of the burden of the disease falls on those of lower socioeconomic status as well. Diabetes also places a massive burden on the economy, with diagnosed diabetes costs of roughly $327 billion dollars and total costs with undiagnosed diabetes and prediabetes approaching $400 billion dollars annually. So, it’s important to identify and detect the people who might have diabetes or are in risk of having one. To do so, we gather information on the patients and probable cases. We consider 21 factors that may relate to having diabetes. Here we have records of 70,692 of patients who lives in America based on the survey conducted by CDC – Center of Disease Control and Prevention – annually. The dataset we use here is a clean dataset which has an equal 50-50 split of respondents with no diabetes and with either prediabetes or diabetes. The dataset have binary responses.
